OBSDOCS-873/TRACING-3799: Documentation for the Tempo monolithic CRD (#75761)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* observability/distr_tracing/distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-cli_{context}"]
= Installing a TempoMonolithic instance by using the CLI

:FeatureName: The TempoMonolithic instance
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> You can install a TempoMonolithic instance from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install a `TempoMonolithic` instance from the command line.
```

Author: TY. As explained in reply to another comment.

.Prerequisites

* An active {oc-first} session by a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role.
+
[TIP]
====
* Ensure that your {oc-first} version is up to date and matches your {product-title} version.

* Run `oc login`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --username=<your_username>
----
====

.Procedure

> . Run the following command to create a project of your choice for the TempoMonolithic instance that you will create in a subsequent step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to create a project of your choice for the `TempoMonolithic` instance that you create in a subsequent step:
```

Author: Thank you for this suggestion. I only use back ticks when referring to the actual custom resource, which is not the case here.
Yes, I try to avoid future tense too. 🙂 However, "avoiding" and banning are not synonyms.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: project.openshift.io/v1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: <project_of_tempomonolithic_instance>
EOF
----

> . Decide which type of supported storage you will use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a Persistent Volume, or object storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Decide which type of supported storage to use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a Persistent Volume, or object storage.
```

Author: Thank you. I will apply this suggestion.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Object storage is not included with the {TempoShortName} and requires setting up an object store by a supported provider: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], or link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].

> Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the TempoMonolithic instance. You can do this by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the `TempoMonolithic` instance. You can do this by running the following command:
```

Author: I wouldn't add back ticks to every mention of the TempoStack product. I only use back ticks when referring to the custom resource and it's contents. It's like because it's possible to open Firefox by running the `firefox` command, should we write `firefox` rather than "Firefox" everywhere? IMO, the style guide rules should be friends with the common sense.

Author: > In the intro, you use backticks.

True, but for the custom resource, not the instance.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> //* observability/distr_tracing/distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

Reviewer 2: Nit-est of nits:
```suggestion
// * observability/distr_tracing/distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc
```
A few others like this for new files if you want to add for consistency.

Author: Thank you. Fixed in the modules affected by this PR.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-cli_{context}"]
= Installing a TempoMonolithic instance by using the CLI

:FeatureName: The TempoMonolithic instance
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

You can install a TempoMonolithic instance from the command line.

.Prerequisites

* An active {oc-first} session by a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role.
+
[TIP]
====
* Ensure that your {oc-first} version is up to date and matches your {product-title} version.

> * Run `oc login`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Run the `oc login` command:
```

Author: Thank you. Applied.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login --username=<your_username>
----
====

.Procedure

. Run the following command to create a project of your choice for the TempoMonolithic instance that you will create in a subsequent step:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: project.openshift.io/v1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: <project_of_tempomonolithic_instance>
EOF
----

> . Decide which type of supported storage to use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a Persistent Volume, or object storage.

Reviewer 2: Either:
```suggestion
. Decide which type of supported storage to use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a persistent volume, or object storage.
```
or:
```suggestion
. Decide which type of supported storage to use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a `PersistentVolume` resource, or object storage.
```
(per [repo guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting))

There are ~11 other instances like this that should be similarly changed as well, but I won't comment on each one.

Author: Thank you. I lowercased the instances found in the files of this PR.

I also opened a Jira ticket to double-check elsewhere.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Object storage is not included with the {TempoShortName} and requires setting up an object store by a supported provider: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], or link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].

Reviewer 2: Could this be:
```suggestion
Object storage is not included with the {TempoShortName} and requires setting up an object store by a supported provider: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[{rh-storage-first}], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], or link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].
```
from `common-attributes.adoc`? If so, there are handful of other instances of it in the repo that can be changed, too, but I won't comment on each one.

Author: Thank you. I've replaced it with `{odf-full}`.

Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the TempoMonolithic instance. You can do this by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - << EOF
<object_storage_secret>
EOF
----

For more information, see "Object storage setup".

--
include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-secret-example.adoc[]
--

====

. Create a TempoMonolithic instance in the project that you created for it.
+
[TIP]
====
You can create multiple TempoMonolithic instances in separate projects on the same cluster.
====

.. Customize the `TempoMonolithic` custom resource (CR).
+
include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-tempomonolithic-custom-resource.adoc[]

> .. Apply the customized CR by running the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Apply the customized CR by running the following command:
```

Author: OK. Applied. Thank you.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - << EOF

> <TempoMonolithic_custom_resource>

Reviewer 2: Lowercase for user-replaceables:
```suggestion
<tempomonolithic_custom_resource>
```

Author: OK. Applied. Thank you.

EOF
----

.Verification

. Verify that the `status` of all TempoMonolithic `components` is `Running` and the `conditions` are `type: Ready` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get tempomonolithic.tempo.grafana.com <metadata_name_of_TempoMonolithic_CR> -o yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc get tempomonolithic.tempo.grafana.com <metadata_name_of_tempomonolithic_cr> -o yaml
```
Looks like there are ~8ish others like this in the PR that should be lowercase-ified; please hit those too but I won't comment on each one.

----

. Run the following command to verify that the pod of the TempoMonolithic instance is running:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods
----

. Access the Jaeger UI:

.. Query the route details for the `tempo-<metadata_name_of_TempoMonolithic_CR>-jaegerui` route by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route
----

> .. Open `\https://<route_from_previous_step>` in a web browser.

Reviewer 2: [ISG] Colon leading into substeps:
```suggestion
.. Open `\https://<route_from_previous_step>` in a web browser:
```

Author: There are no more substeps. This is the last substep.

Reviewer 2: Oops! Yes you're right, sorry. :]
